>> Mike North: All day,
we've been dealing with requests and
we've gone deeper into requests than you
probably ever thought you would go, right?
I mean, if you came in here thinking
Ajax was the primary tool of the trade,
we've used Fetch just to such a high
degree that you really know the ins and
outs of what's going on.
But that's still only one direction,
right?
Essentially we're telling
the server what we want, and
it's sending stuff back to us.
So the browser has still been initiating
all communication with the server.
And if we think about the kinds
of needs that developers have,
which have caused them to
want native platforms for
their mobile experiences,
push notifications and
the ability to send something initiated
at a server, that lands on a client.
That is very high on the list.
>> Mike North: Luckily there is
an effort to standardize this,
it's a little bit fragmented right now.
Web Push is the only thing even close
to a standard, I mean it is a standard.
Safari has its own thing, but
we're gonna look at Web Push because
it is gaining enough steam that it's
highly likely it will become the de
facto solution for this kind of thing.
So at it's core, the idea here
is that we can send something
from a server to one or
more of a user's browsers, right?
So we essentially ask them for
permission to push to their browsers.
And part of the advantage of having
the service worker installed is we
have something there waiting to handle any
of these events that may come through.
Just like the way service workers
have been operating so far.
Your tab does not have to be open in
order for them to get these events.
And news sites really love to use this
stuff these days, where they will
send notifications to you, and
try to re-engage you back into the site.
They're trying to tell you they
have something for you, click here,
look at this article.
And that's one of the core tenants
of progressive web apps, right?
You should be able to do something,
put it aside.
And then if the app needs you to come
back or has something of interest,
you should be able to come and
take care of that.
And this is their two
components of this here.
There's the act of being able to
send a signal to the browser and
then notifications are sort of
an independent thing that you can use in
response to one of those messages
that lends in the browser.
So we're just gonna talk
about the mechanism at first.
And after that, Steve's gonna go through
the visual notification that comes in and
how that works so nicely with Push.
So part of the standard involves
this concept of a push service.
So here's the general idea.
So we have multiple browsers,
and each vendor,
each creator of these browsers, they
maintain, like when they add support for
a web push to the browser, they will
as part of that create a push service.
This is a server run by the,
you know Mozilla and Chrome, and like if
Apple implements web push for Safari,
they will have one of these as well.
And essentially these serve as the queues.
They serve as a gateway where you can
send stuff to these things, and they're
responsible for delivering that message
to the appropriate individual browser.
This is very closely modeled off of the
way push notifications work in Android and
iOS.
So in general,
you're going to request permission of
your user to send them notifications.
And what you get as a result of
them granting that permission,
are these objects called
PushSubscriptions.
And that there, that has
the information that you need to prove
that you're authorized to send
messages to that user's device.
So then next what happens is we
take that PushSubscription and
wrap it up package it with the message
that we wish to send to that browser.
We send it to the push service and
then the push service is responsible for
finding that browser and
making sure it gets the message.
The browser has to be open in order for
this to work, but
they don't have to be
in any particular tab.
And in the future it's very likely that
browsers will have sort of a demon process
that's always running in the background.
So that even if like Chrome is closed,
they have at least some small
foundational piece that can be used so
that people can receive these
notifications at any time, right?
Just like a native app would be able
to send notifications at any time.
>> Mike North: So
it is not too complicated, but
if you dive deeper into it,
it gets quite complicated.
But the basic case
shouldn't be too difficult.
So first we need
a ServiceWorkerRegistration object.
This is the object that we get when
we register a ServiceWorker, and
within the ServiceWorker,
we can access it using self.registration.
And so that's, right there,
that's a promise that will resolve,
and then I'll give you
access to this thing.
So although it's not part of the standard,
one of the conventions that
all modern browsers now that
support web push have adapted,
is there's a single
permission that users grant.
And that enables you
both to push non-visible
messages that your service
worker will receive.
And to show visual notifications
which usually are closely
related to those messages.
And you need the ServiceWorkerRegistration
in order to make that work.
So let's look at how we make
use of this registration.
And this is all inside
the registration handler here.
We have this subscribeOptions object here.
And there's something called a push
manager, and we ask the push manager
to subscribe the user to notifications,
right?
And this resolves, this promise
resolves to that PushSubscription.
Let's look at the subscribe options here.
So the first option we
get is userVisibleOnly.
I have a false value here,
but Chrome currently,
I believe only lets us register with true.
Which means that we're only
allowing push command that turns
into something visible for the user.
Now, frankly,
we are able to do things that are not
visible to the user, currently.
And this option is part of the specs so
that may evolve at some point.
But just know that we have to have that
value, userVisibleOnly at true for
today's exercise.